---

date: 2021-12-10T19:57:29+0000
title: Go R1 Day 86 - Wrap Up!
slug: go-r1-day-86
area: go
round: 1
day_counter: 86
tags:

- tech
- development
- 100DaysOfCode
- golang
- microblog
typora-root-url: ../../../static
typora-copy-images-to:  ../../../static/images

# images: [/images/r1-d86-IMAGE.png]

---

## Finished!

Done!
I've pretty much done above and beyond 100 days, but finding the blogging format to take a lot more effort to keep up when I'm doing a mix of puzzles, courses, and work.

Since my full-time job has Go development as a part of it now, I've exceeded this and going to track any future training goals in a lower overhead way, such as GitHub issues or such.

## Was It Worth It?

Yes, it was worth it.
It helped me break down a large amount of learning back into a daily rythm of dedicated study.
For me, doing full time development, I found it was hard since I do code a big chunk of the day to document all the time.

## What would I do differently?

Probably would minimize the effort of documenting the process itself.
While it's great to save notes and articulate things, I feel either saving the notes as part of the git log or algorithm style repo would be less trouble.
Also, some of the work is in various platforms like Leetcode, which aren't easy to straight extract.
Reduce the overhead and focus on documenting core principles or concepts that would be useful in a wiki style format, but not log as much.

Using Github Issues might work really well too, because you could post them to a log later in bulk, but otherwise the cli driven creation and kanban board approach would minimize the overhead.
That would be cool too cause you could have bots run todos, stale items, and other cool things for you.
